---
layout: post
title: weeknotes-32-2023
date: 2023-08-12 19:36:51 +0000
categories: weeknotes travel Belgium
---
OK, I've not been very regular on the weeknotes. I think I'll try to add to them throughout the week instead of all at once.

**The value of blurting out** Sometimes I come out with half-assed ideas, and sometimes there's nothing to it, but sometimes there's some good instinct at the bottom of it. The value of blurting it out to peers or on the internet is that you get immediate feedback, and even the 'you don't know what you're talking about' variety is useful as it forces you to specify and refine until you can tell whether there's any gold in it. The price is making a slight fool of yourself, and letting go of ego. It's a trade-off. It might be worth it, I'm still figuring it out.

**Le Shuttle** came back from Belgium this week, first time with the car. I'm not sure I'll do it again, it's much more tiring, stressful (and polluting), and fairly expensive overall. You drive your car onto a freight train, which is an interesting experience. The car was useful in terms of freedom of movement (no brexit pun intended) locally. Back on the island now - car or not it was lovely to hug family and catch up with friends I hadn't seen in a long time (again).

**Brussels** One of the best moments this week was watching the sunset over Brussels with my friend Melissa and the 10-year old. We climbed onto the roof of Brucity, which is a houmungous wooden terrace with a rooftop bar. It's like the wooden deck of a large cruise ship floating over Brussels. Free access, you don't even have to drink anything. We wandered and sat there for an hour and watched the sun set on an orange sky and the lights turn on, slightly chilled by the rooftop breeze.
